---
published: true
---
## DNS Week 4 Lab

### Objective ###
Learn what DNS is, it's hierarchy, record types, how it works and how it's used. 

### Hierarchy ###

1. Top-Level Domain
Refers to the part of the domain to the right of the root domain, . , such as .com, .edu, .gov and .mil.

2. Second-Level Domain
Refers to the part of the domain to the left of the root domain, . , such as apple, wired, reddit, etc. 

3. Subdomain
The subdomain is located to the left of the second-level domain. 

### Record Types ####

1. A RECORD
Converts the domain name to an ipv4 address.

2. AAAA RECORD
Converts the domain name to an ipv6 address.

3. CNAME RECORD
Used to map one domain name to another. Eventually it would resolve to an IP address.

4. MX RECORD (Mail Exchange)
Figures out which email servers a domain is using. Also, provide a list of which emails servers to use and in what order.

5. TXT RECORD
Allows for storing text-based data. Used to determine who owns the domain name. 


### How a DNS request is made ###

1. End device requests a domain name. End device will first check the device's cache to see if its stored locally.

2. If not stored in cache, a request will be made to a Recursive DNS server. Recursive DNS servers are normally stored by your ISP. If found here then ip address will be sent back to end device. If not found request will be forwarded to root dns servers. 

3. Root DNS servers direct you the correct TLD server. 

4. The TLD server will direct you to the autoritative DNS server.

5. The Authorative DNS servers provide the ip address of a domain to the recursive DNS servers. This allows the end device to connect to the ip address of the domain it requested.

### Hands On ###

1. Requested,
	nslookup --type=CNAME shop.website.thm.website.thm

	Output: shops.myshopify.com
    
2. Requested,
	nslookup --type=TXT website.thm
    
    Output: THM{7012BBA60997F35A9516C2E16D2944FF}
    
3. Requested,
	nslookup --type=MX website.thm
    
    Output: website.thm mail exchanger = 30 			alt4.aspmx.l.google.com

    
4. Requested,
	nslookup --type=A website.thm
    
    Output: Non-authoritative answer:
	Name: website.thm
	Address: 10.10.10.10







