---
published: true
---
## Intro To Networking
---
### Objective ###
Become familiar with netowrking and its fundamentals. 

#### OSI MODEL (Open Systems Interconnection)  ####

Utilized to show the theory of computer networking. 

-LAYER 7 Application
	Layer in which applications interact with the computer network.

-LAYER 6 Presentation
	Packages the data in a standardised format. Performs compression, encryption and additoinal transformations of the data if called for.
    
-LAYER 5 Session
	Determines whether it can establish a connection between networked devices. 
    
-LAYER 4 Transport
	Used to determine protocol by which data will be transported/transmitted.
    
-LAYER 3 Network
	Framework for establishing the route data will travel along the network. 
    
-LAYER 2 Data Link
	Packages the data in format for transmission. Sends data as well as verifying that data has not been corrupted during transmission. Layer responsible for adding the physical MAC address of the receiving endpoint.
    
-LAYER 1 Physical
	Pertains to the physical components/hardware of a device that receieves and sends, converts and interprets the electrical pulses sent over the network.
    
    
#### ENCAPSULATION

- Encapsulation and de-encapsulation are performed using a standard model. Allows devices on the netowrk to be able to communicate. As data moves down each layer of the OSI model, each layer adds additional information specific to that layer.

#### TCP/IP

- The TCP/IP model is the current standard used by real-world networking. TCP/IP model encompasses the OSI model's application, presentation and session layer into one layer, application. TCP/IP combines the OSI data link and physical layer into the network interface layer. 

#### PING 

- Command used to determine whether a networked device is capable of establishing a connection. 

#### TRACERT

- Command used to determine the connections data travels through to reach its destination/target.

#### WHOIS

- Command used to determine who owns a domain.